= The World =

''For more see: [[World Setup]]''

The world is divided into a 7x7 Grid of islands. Each island is home to 100x100 squares which have either forest, hills, mountains, plains and rivers or other player cities on them.

The top left most island is referred to as 0:0, which is 0-99 X and 0-99 Y.<br />The island bottom right of that one is 6:6, or simply 600-699 X and 600-699 Y.

==Continents==

'''UPDATE TO TERMINOLOGY/GRID LAYOUT INFORMATION :'''
<br />Each world is divided into a 5x5 grid of continents. World 25 , for instance, is laid out with continents 00-44.

{| class="wikitable"
!First row
|00||01||02||03||04
|-
!Second row
|10||11||12||13||14
|-
!Third row
|20||21||22||23||24
|-
!Fourth row
|30||31||32||33||34
|-
!Fifth row
|40||41||42||43||44
|}

Most players in each world refer to their location by continent and coordinates. For Example, on World 25: Continent 21, coordinates 154:296 is a tile on the southern coast. Hovering your cursor over any tile in world will reveal its continent and coordinates.

Moving from one continent to the next requires you to have access to a ship. Merchant ships for settling new cities. Sloops, frigates and war galleons for assults or sieges.

== Monsters ==

[[Bosses]] will randomly spawn in the form of dragons and other [[Bestiarum|creatures]]. These large creatures can drop [[Artifacts]] for you to use.

[[Dungeons]] also randomly spawn and close over time as they are conquered.

== Shrines and Moongates ==

{{Main|Shrine}}
{{Main|Moongate}}

Every Continent has a 8 [[Shrines]] and a couple of [[Moongates]]. It has not yet been announced what Moongates are for, but Shrines (when Active) provides the Alliance that holds them with a bonus such as +10% damage by all armies in the alliance.
[[Category:Continent]]
[[Category:Gameplay]]